Now we will  start object orientation.
Now one important thing is for this section you should watch all the videos in the same order.
Don't skip any video because the topics are linked with one another.
And my explanation of a topic may be related to the previous topic covered so don't skip anything
and watch them thoroughly.
Then I can help you in giving you a complete picture or the clear picture of object orientation.
So let us start with object orientation, see it as a strategy or a style of developing application or
developing a software.
It's a methodology like other methodologies are also they like structured programming procedural programming
or modular programming or aspect oriented programming so they're
Other styles also available and one of the well known and famous style is object orientation. All the latest
language supports object orientation and this object orientation  is more related to designing
of a software and this deals with internal designing not external that is visible designing, so its nowhere
related to the user of the software, its related to the programmers who are working
for developing a software. With the help of object orientation the application development or the programming
becomes more and more systematic and we can follow the procedures of engineering to develop a software.
like in other engineering how any product is developed same way a software product is developed by adopting
object orientation.
If I talk a little bit about other engineering like suppose a civil engineer is constructing a building
then first of all he will make a plan.
He will make a design when making a design.
He may be having many options but he will select one of the design and finalize it.
Then once it is finalized as a blueprint on paper then he will start constructing, same way an electronic
engineer, when he is manufacturing any device.
He will come up with some design that is circuit design of that device on paper.
Once it is finalized then he will start manufacturing the device.
So on paper we make blueprints we are not using paper nowadays.
We have many computer editing tools so let us just imagine on paper we are working.
So same way for developing a software we want to do some paper work, come up with some blueprint and
then we start developing a software,  and a team of programmer can work over a single software and the
work can be distributed easily and the work can be reused between the programmers very easily. so object
orientation it all depends on how you see the system how you understand the system.
Looking at the system and your perspective is more important.
So if you understand the system perfectly and your perspective is clear then you can develop a better
system not just object oriented programming that are the programming styles also like procedural programming
modular programming structure programming and aspect oriented programming but object oriented programming
is well known and successful pattern for software development and most of the latest languages
that are used for application development.
They are object oriented.
No I'm going to explain you object orientation from modular programming.
The reason is, people who learn C++ will already be knowing C language so C language supports modular or
procedural programming.
So based on that I can give you the idea how object orientation  is different from modular programming.
Let us compare them through some examples.
So first I will take an example of bank
if you're developing an application for a bank using modular programming then how you see the system
how you see the working of a bank.
So what will be your design.
So that depends on how you understand it and how you see the system.
So let us see how I'm looking at the system using modular programming see at the bank.
You can open an account, open account, and you can deposit some amount, and you can withdraw some amount or
you can check balance.
You can apply for loan
so on.
So these are the things that you can do at the bank.
So opening an account is a function depositing some amount in your account is a function.
withdrawing is function.
So all these are nothing but functions.
So at the bank what.
All you can do each thing you can call it has a function.
So if you're developing a software for a bank it is nothing but a collection of functions.
So bank application will be based on the function and the user of your application will be utilizing
these functions for performing his required task.
So you will develop a software in the set off in the form of a set of functions in modern programming.
Now for object orientation I would take some different example see government, government provide a lot of
services like one of the services electric service and waterworks, water supply service and education
transport and even government can have banks and so on.
So all these are departments of a government see this is a department
so all these departments. Now what you can do in this department as a user.
You can apply for a new connection, new connection or you can close your connection if you want.
If you have extra connections, or you can make bill payment, then what.
These are? these are functions, belonging to this department, now same way bank is also there, so
same function deposit and withdraw all those things.
So these things comes as a function of the bank.
So now what is this.
So for these also you may be having some functions you may be having these functions so what do you
call to these, these you call them as objects.
….
So complete system for the government a complete software for a government is a collection of set of objects.
I can say, now each object is having its relevant functions.
These are relevant functions, so related to transport, related to banking.
So a complete software is collection of objects and objects contains functions as well as data related
to those functions.
And here the system was collection of functions.
So if you compare them now this we are looking at very close level and this
We are looking at little far away level.
So if you look at things closer like if you go closer to the bank then everything inside that is nothing
but set of functions.
So the point here is that I can tell you one thing, when initially when computer science was introduced
the computers where used for performing some simple very small task.
Then later on it has, now later on people where started getting a critical computer.
So they started using them for larger and bigger and bigger task.
So at the  time when in c lang. or procedural language were there.
Everything was not computerized in the system suppose  any organization any business organization was
not computerized everything, they will computerised  some part of it, like account part of it
or Paravel part of it, everything was not computerized so when the programmers were
working on one particular department then they were looking at everything as functions, but now
we are developing a software at a larger scale for a big organisation as a complete one single software
then you can see all the things as a set of objects.
So electric related things are functions related to electric and transport related function are
related to transport and those are objects and this is collection of objects.
So we have increased our level of looking at the system because earlier we were solving a small problem
now we are solving a bigger problem, that's how
When this trend has started.
Then there was a need of some methodology that should support software development easily.
So yes object orientation is best suitable for large size systems.
I will take one more example.
Let us talk about a manufacturing form which manufactures some goods.
Let us see auto mobile company which manufacture cars or vehicles then for them then if you look
at that manufacturing farm then it may be working in the form of departments like one is a inventory department
by raw material and maintain that stock of raw material and one is manufacturing that is the production
work that they do.
And one department will be looking at sales one department is looking at marketing and one is about
petrol and one is for accounts and all.
So there may be many departments.
Now if you are developing a software only for pegol purpose or only for inventory plus then you may
look at the system just like modular and in that you can find the pieces like placing an order and checking
the item in stock checking for the checking the reorder level.
These type of things you can have set of functions in that, so you can develop the software only for
the inventory system as a collection of function but when you are developing a software for the
entire organization then you have to see the things in the form of objects.
So there the items is an object.
The inventory items as an object, employees as an object account is an object and the product manufacture
is an object.
The machines that are used for production is an object.
So all these things are objects so you have to see the things in the form of objects and define their
data and the functions that they're performing.
So that's it the level at which you see the system has changed.
We are looking at the system at the higher level. so we can adopt object orientation.
So that's it, this is  the introduction for object orientation in comparison with modular programming so that's
all about object orientation.
So the next video will be on principles of object orientation.